it has been 18 days since Lili
gave birth
[Music]
for her to produce trends is not unusual
half of all panda births result in them
but before both twins to survive
certainly is
pandas almost always abandon one cub
it's thought that they don't have
sufficient milk or energy to care for
two but the team at Chengdu have hit
upon a cunning plan
[Music]
by removing one cup at birth and then
switching throughout the day and night
keepers are able to encourage panda
mothers to feed both siblings while
being under the impression that they
have only one Lele is distracted with a
bowl of honey water but is reluctant to
give up her cub
doing this successfully requires
enormous patience on the keeper and
great trust from the Panda one twin is
taken to the incubator where it will
have a top-up of formula milk and
switched for the other which will now
get his shares of his mother's milk the
keeper will swap the twins
up to 10 times a day and Lili will
almost always have one cup with her
[Music]
Django's technique of twin swapping at
last opens the way to a possible 100
percent survival rate in newborn captive
cups
[Music]